Digital Marketing:-
            Digital Marketing is component of marketing that uses the internet and online based technology for promoting products and services. In digital Marketing desktop, computers, mobile phone and other digital devices are used to promote products and services. Digital Marketing is developed during 1990's & 2000's.

* Scope of Digital Marketing:-
            1) Flexible
            2) Easy
            3) Eco-friendly
            4) Fastest reach
            5) Influenceable 
            6) Job Opportunities 
            7) High Engagements 
            8) Small Investement and big returns
            9) Measure Immediate Result.

1) Flexible:- 
            Digital marketing is flexible in nature. It means that we can modify this method as per the need of situation. We can also change the content of marketing at any time.

2) Easy:-
            Digital Marketing is very easy method of marketing. We can create marketing content & publish this content by using digital marketing.

3) Eco-Friendly:- 
            Digital marketing is Eco-Friendl. In digital marketing we do not use any natural resources. Digital marketing done through digital media there for it. If do not create any harmful thing's.

4) Fastest Reach:-
            Digital Marketing has fastest reach of customers. It means that in digital marketing. We can opproach the customer within a second. It has fastes reach as compared to other marketing method's.

5) Influenceable:-
            Digital marketing is a influenceable method of marketing. It means that digital marketing created great impact on customers. We can be created for influencing the customers.

6) Job Opportunities:-
            Digital marketing has created flot of job opportunities. Digital marketing requires skilled employee's  like content developers, data analysis, data scientist, data entry operations etc.

7) High Engagement:-
            Digital marketing has high engagement. It means that digital marketing is alway's open for customers. It means that digital marketing content is available for 24*7. We know that in traditional marketing tha marketing executive can work for specific time of a day but digital marketing has high engagement.

8) Small investment big returns:-
            Digital marketing requires less or small investment. We know that much of cost required to create digital marketing content. Digital marketing has more impact than traditional marketing. Therefore a business org. can get bigger returns.

9) Measure immediate result:-
            In Digital Marketing we can measure immediate result of marketing. It means that we can analyse the customers responses by using data received  from technical in formation and details of other orders from the website and web app's
    Inshort the scope of digital marketing is vast, encompassing strategies to promote products and services using digital channels like search engines, social media, email, and mobile apps, leading to diverse career paths and high demand across industries.

Better Understanding - https://www.youngurbanproject.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/scope-of-digital-marketing.png


* What is Digital Media? Explain Adavantages of digital media over other media?

=> Digital Media:-
            - Digital Marketing is component of marketing that uses the internet and online based technology for promoting products and services.
            - Digital media is a blend of technology and content and building digital media producats requires teams of professionals with diverse skills, including technical skills, artistic skills, analytical and production co-ordination skills.
            - Digital media ininvolves the creation of audio, video, websites, social media and applications using technology such as the internet and electronics, Electronic devices can help design, update and transmit digital media.
            - Some example of digital media include social networking platforms, web pages, mobile apps, video animations.
            - Digital media is important because it enables businessed, consumers and digital media professionals to connect and communicate with audiences from anywhere.

* Advantages of Digital media over other media:-
            Advantages of digital media over other media can be explained with the help of following points:-
    
1) Fast Updates
2) Two way communication
3) Eco-frieradly
4) Less Expensive
5) More Income or Revenue
6) Easy Availability
7) Democratic 
8) Fast Reach
9) Influencial
10) Flexible

1) Fast Updates:-
            Digital Media gives fast updates than other media. We know that we can get latest happening on digital media. The other media like print media cannot give fast updates. If we consider newspaper then we should wait for one day to get new updates. In social media platforms we get the live updates.

2) Two-way Communication:-
            - Digital media allows two-way communicatio. Here, customer can share their opinios, thoughts and feedback customer can communicate directly with the company.
            - In traditional media two way communication is not allowed here customers cannot give feedback to a company.

3) Eco-friendly:-
            - Digital media is ecofriendly than other media digital media will not harm any environmental factors.
            - Traditional medias are not eco friendly. They are harmful for the environmental factors.

4) Less Expensive:-
            - Digital media is less expensive than other media. Digital media requires small investment than other media. Small companies can easily advertise there product on social media platform. Generally  digital media has one time investment but traditional media requires more money, manpower and other resources.

5) More Income or Revenue:- 
            - We know that digital media requires less investment digital media is useful in generating more income or revenues. Digital media may reduce the total cost of marketing. These reduction in markeitng cost can increase the revenue or income.

6) Easy Availability:- 
            - Digital media is easliy available than other media. It means that digital media contents are available  24*7 customers can access the information at any time.

7) Democretic:-
            - Digital media is has democretic nature. It means that their are less restrictions on digital media. We know that their are lot of limitations which are imposed on other medias. For example- Print media has lot of restrictions and limitations.

8) Fast Reach:- 
            - Digital media has fast reach of customers. We know that we can reach the customer within a second of time by using digital media. We can see that this much fast reach is not possible in any other media.

9) Influncial:- 
            - Digital media is influenceable than other media, we know that digital marketing content is more attractive than other marketing content maybe in audio visual format. This audio visual content can create more impact on customers.

10) Flexible:- 
            Digital media is flexible than other media. Content of digital media can be modified at anytime. These modification is not possible in other media. It means that we can change the content as per the demand of situation. Therefore, we can say that digital media is flexible.

* 